Q1

ans: an organized collection of structured information, or data
it works as store data

Q 2
Normalization is the process of organizing data in a database.

Q3
DBMS :stores data as file
     :No relationship between data.
     :Normalization is not present.
     :DBMS does not support distributed database.
     :It deals with small quantity of data.
     :It is used for small organization and deal with small data.
     :Security is less
     :Examples: XML, Window Registry, Forxpro, dbaseIIIplus etc.

RDBMS :stores data in table form.
      :Data is stored in the form of tables which are related to each other.
      :Normalization is present.
      :RDBMS supports distributed database
      :It deals with large amount of data.
      :It is used to handle large amount of data.
      :More security measures provided.
      :xamples: MySQL, PostgreSQL, SQL Server, Oracle, Microsoft Access etc.


Q4
Dr E.F.Codd, also known to the world as the ‘Father of Database Management Systems’ had propounded 12 rules 

Here is brief note on E.F Codd’s Twelve rules:

Rule 0 − Foundation rule
Rule 1 − Rule of Information
Rule 2 − Rule of Guaranteed Access
Rule 3 − Rule of Systematic Null Value Support
Rule 4 − Rule of Active and online relational Catalog
Rule 5 − Rule of Comprehensive Data Sub-language
Rule 6 − Rule of Updating Views
Rule 7 − Rule of Set level insertion, update and deletion
Rule 8 − Rule of Physical Data Independence
Rule 9 − Rule of Logical Data Independence
Rule 10 − Rule of Integrity Independence
Rule 11 − Rule of Distribution Independence
Rule 12 − Rule of Non Subversion

Q5
Data redundancy refers to the duplication of data within a database or information system

Q6
 DDL (Data Definition Language) interpreter is a component of a database management system (DBMS) responsible for processing and executing DDL statements. DDL is a subset of SQL (Structured Query Language) used to define, modify, and manage the structure 

Q8
SQL key constraints are rules or conditions that define the uniqueness and relationships of data in database tables

primary key
CREATE TABLE Customers (
    CustomerID INT PRIMARY KEY,
    FirstName VARCHAR(50),
    LastName VARCHAR(50)
);


Q9
A savepoint in a database management system (DBMS) is a named point in a transaction to which you can later roll back if needed. 

SAVEPOINT savepoint_name;

Q10
A trigger in SQL is a set of instructions or code that is automatically executed in response to a specific event or action that occurs in a database table. 

CREATE TRIGGER trigger_name
{BEFORE | AFTER} {INSERT | UPDATE | DELETE}
ON table_name
[FOR EACH ROW]
BEGIN
    -- Trigger code or statements
END;
